detective recapped here today i'm going
to explain a mystery thriller film
called basic instinct
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
when former rock star
johnny boz is murdered sfpd detective
nick kern is called in to investigate
nick and his partner detective gus moran
investigate the crime scene and enter
the victim's room
there they see captain talcott the other
detectives and the forensics team
already working
on the bed is johnny's blood-covered
body with his hands tied to the bed's
metalhead board with a white scarf
nick and gus learn that the time of
death is around two o'clock in the
morning
and walker informs them that johnny was
last seen leaving the club with his
girlfriend around midnight
when nick asks for the murder weapon one
of the detectives gives him a bloody
eyes pick inside a sealed plastic
he is also told that johnny's seat is
all over the sheets making everyone
laugh except the captain
who tells them that the victim was a
respectable man and a major contributor
to the mayor's campaign
nick then asks walker for the name of
johnny's girlfriend and he replies that
it's catherine trammell before giving
nick her address
nick and gus waste no time in visiting
catherine when a blonde woman comes
downstairs nick informs her that they
have a few questions for her while the
woman asks them if they're from the vice
squad
nick answers that they're from the
homicide division then gus asks a woman
when she last saw johnny
without batting an eye the woman asks
them if johnny's dead gus wants to know
what makes her think that
and she casually retorts that they
wouldn't be there otherwise ignoring her
comment
gus asks if she was with johnny the
previous night so she informs them that
they're looking for catherine and not
her
she then tells them that her name is
roxy and then she's catherine's friend
finally nick asks roxy where catherine
is and they leave after she tells them
upon arriving at the address nick and
gus find catherine smoking on the
balcony
after nick introduces himself and gus to
her she tells them that she knows who
they are before asking them how johnny
died
when nick explains that he was murdered
with an ice pick catherine only smiles
and they ask
her how long she's been dating the
victim she boldly corrects them
saying that she wasn't dating johnny she
was just sleeping with him it turns out
that they've been sleeping together for
a year and a half now and that she was
with johnny the night of the murder they
had a drink at the club then left
together but catherine didn't come home
with him since she went
back to her place nick continues
interrogating catherine asking her if
there was anyone with her the previous
night but she taunts him
saying there was no one with her since
she wasn't in the mood looking her
straight in the eye
nick asks catherine if she's sorry
johnny's dead and catherine answers that
she is
adding that she likes sleeping with him
suddenly catherine tells them that she's
not in the mood to talk anymore
so gus lets her know that they can take
her to the station for questioning if
she doesn't cooperate
unflinching catherine dares gus to
arrest her when gus doesn't do anything
she rudely tells the men to leave after
his interview with catherine
nick goes straight to his psychologist
dr beth garner's office
when asked how everything's going on
with his life nick admits that his
dating life has become boring since they
stopped dating adding that he hasn't had
a drink in three months
beth asked him if he's still using coke
and nick denies it before proudly
telling her that he even stopped smoking
after answering beth's questions nick
tells her to inform the internal affairs
department that he's all right and beth
agrees
as nick leaves beth tells him that she
still misses him but he doesn't even
turn around to look at her
during their briefing nick and gus are
told that johnny sustained 31 stab
wounds in the neck and chest area
there are no usable prints found on the
scene no signs of forced entry and
nothing is missing
there are no prints on the ice pick
either and the expensive scarf found in
johnny's room is hermes
they also found high-quality coke in the
scene and johnny inhaled it
leaving minute quantities on his lips
and private parts after hearing the
report on johnny's death
gus wants to know more about catherine
and captain talcott asks walker if she's
a suspect and on what basis
after walker confirms that she is one he
gives a profile of the 30 year old woman
she has a clean record and graduated
madna [ __ ] laude at berkeley in 1983
majoring in literature and psychology
catherine's parents were killed in a
boating accident in 1979
leaving her the sole heir to their
estimated assets of 110 million
catherine was also engaged to manuel
vazquez a former middleweight contender
who was killed in the ring in 1984
to complete catherine's profile walker
tells everyone that catherine is a
writer and has written a novel under a
pen name about a former rock and roll
star who gets murdered by his girlfriend
later that day nick reads catherine's
novel love hurts and calls his partner
to tell him that in the book
the murderer killed the victim using an
ice pick with the victim's hands tied to
the bed with a white scarf
the following morning the homicide
department holds a meeting with beth
garner and dr lamont to discuss the
killer's behavior
according to dr lamont it's either the
author is the murderer who acted out the
killing described in the novel or
someone has read the book and enacted
the killing to incriminate catherine
when nick asks dr lamont what kind of
person they're dealing with if it was
the author who murdered johnny the
doctor says they're dealing with a
devious and diabolical mind
he says that the book needed at least
months or years to be written which
means that the writer must have planned
the murder years ago
and the fact that she carried it out
indicates psychopathic obsessive
behavior
in layman's terms beth explains that the
author has intended the book to be her
alibi and that catherine will probably
tell them that she's not dumb enough to
kill someone in the exact same way
that's described in her novel
when nick asks what if the perp was
someone who has read the book dr lamont
infers that they're dealing with a
person who is so obsessed that they are
willing to kill an innocent person just
to incriminate the author
in conclusion they're all dealing with
someone very dangerous and very ill
nick and gus go to catherine's house to
invite her for questioning and while
waiting for her nick sees an old
newspaper containing the article about
his involvement with shooting tourists
he asks catherine if she always keeps
old newspapers around and she replies
that only when they're worth reading
as gus informs her of her right to an
attorney catherine dismisses the idea of
having one
on the way to the station gus inquires
if she's writing another book to which
she says that she is
this time it's about a detective who
falls for the wrong woman
curious nick asks her what happens to
the detective and catherine casually
replies that the woman will kill him
at the station nick informs everyone
that catherine has waived her rights to
an attorney
she's confident that she has nothing to
hide assistant district attorney john
corelli starts the investigation and
catherine gives provocative answers
while smoking
she and johnny slept together for a year
and a half and she likes sleeping with
him because he wasn't afraid of
experimenting
when walker questions her about the
white silk scarf she described in the
book
catherine expresses her preference for
such scarves without beating around the
bush
john asks catherine if she killed johnny
and just as beth had guessed
catherine claims that she'd be stupid to
kill someone the way she described it in
her novel
after a few more questions catherine
tells the detectives that she'd used
coke with johnny before
and to everyone's surprise she asked
nick if he slept with anyone while on
coke
then catherine playfully crosses her
legs intentionally exposing herself to
distract the men
she continues taunting the detectives
especially nick and she asks him if he's
ever slept with someone while he's
married and if he wants a cigarette
with nick continuing to ignore her the
interrogation continues
they then asked catherine how she met
johnny and she explains that she wanted
to write a book about the murder of a
retired rock and roll star
so she went to his club picked him up
and slept with him catherine then offers
to take a lie detector test
which she passes with flying colors with
no proof that she committed murder
catherine is set free
she asks the detectives if anyone could
give her a ride home and nick volunteers
without hesitation
after taking catherine home nick follows
his colleagues to a bar to drink with
them
curious about catherine and nick's
relationship walker asks him why
catherine is always asking him personal
questions
since nick knows where this is going he
makes it clear to walter that he and
catherine don't know each other
nick takes a drink even though he's
trying to stay sober then tells walker
not to rule out her involvement in the
murder
he asks walker to consider the death of
catherine's parents and the books she's
published
asserting that all of her books might
have a way of coming true however walker
dismisses his request
while talking about catherine beth
suddenly shows up at the bar
with her watching from afar one of
nick's colleagues nielsen
mocks him for drinking even calling him
a shooter this pisses nick off
so he warns nielsen to leave him alone
spurring beth to quickly break off the
fight
nick and beth then leave the bar
together for her place where they
roughly make love
after that they talk about catherine
nick learns that beth went to berkeley
with her and that they even shared some
classes in another briefing the
detectives discovered that a professor
from berkeley was murdered in his bed
with an ice pick in 1980
when nick asks if catherine was there at
that time walker confirms that she was
following this lead walker orders the
detectives to find out more about her
books and the death of her parents while
nick is tasked to focus on catherine
herself
one day nick is following catherine and
he finds her in the house of a woman
named hazel dawkins
nick stays in his car to watch from a
distance and when catherine comes out he
follows her again
this time he follows her back to her
house from the outside
he watches catherine undress but with
her turning the lights off nick is
forced to leave
back in the station he does some digging
on hazel dobkins and finds out that she
was charged with homicide but she was
released from prison years ago
while nick is researching gus suddenly
shows up and informs him that the dead
professor from berkeley noah goldstein
was catherine's counselor and that she
wasn't a suspect in noah's case
when gus reads hazel's name on the
monitor he tells nick that she murdered
her husband and three young children
years ago
she didn't even deny the murder nor did
she know why she did it
nick goes back to catherine's house to
ask her some questions and as they go
inside
he sees the old newspapers about a
shooting incident before he could ask
her about the newspapers
catherine tells him that she's using him
as an inspiration for the main character
in her new book
while catherine prepares their drink
nick asks her about noah goldstein and
hazel dobkins
catherine says that noah was her
counselor during her freshman year
adding that that's probably where she
got the idea of the ice pick for her
book
she also says that hazel's her friend
who has helped her understand more about
homicidal impulse
then catherine tries to learn more about
next shooting incident all while
seducing him
she provokes nick asking how much coke
he'd taken that day and if that's the
reason why his wife killed herself
having had enough nick pushes catherine
away roxy shows up and the two kiss in
front of an angered neck
still outraged he heads to beth's office
and demands her to tell him who has
access to his files and she says it's
nielsen
nick then confronts nielsen and accuses
him of selling catherine his files
but nielsen vehemently denies it before
things could get worse their colleagues
break off the fight and nick leaves the
office
gus catches up to his car and nick
claims that catherine knows everything
about him and that she's coming for him
that night beth visits nick in his
apartment and the two get into an
argument which escalates to a physical
fight because of nielsen
when beth finally calms down she tells
nick that she had to give nielsen his
psychiatric files because he was going
to recommend mixed discharge from the
force since nielsen claimed her
evaluation of him to be unobjective
in an attempt to help nick beth says she
gave nielsen his file so he could review
them himself
but she didn't think he'd show it to
anyone with no idea what to say to beth
nick just asks her to leave after
falling asleep nick is called to a
murder scene where they find nielson's
body inside his car
with a close range gunshot wound to the
head gus says the murder weapon is
probably a 0.38 caliber revolver and
when walker asks for nick's gun
he surrenders it without hesitation nick
is taken in for questioning
where he admits that he lost his temper
and went after nielsen beth then shows
up and tells everyone that she was at
next apartment the previous night for
about 15 minutes to talk about his
altercation with nielsen
she also says that after nick has
expressed regret about the incident she
left his apartment
for the record walker asks nick if he
killed nielsen and he firmly denies it
unhappy with the turn of events captain
talcott puts nick on leave
before going home nick learns from
andrews that catherine's parents boat
blue due to a leak in the fuel line
andrew adds that there were two previous
repairs and a 5 million policy on both
of them
convinced that catherine is involved
somehow nick tells walker that she
killed nielsen but walker just orders
him to stay away from her
when nick gets home he finds catherine
waiting for him outside
he invites her for a drink in his
apartment then asks how much she paid
nielsen for his files but catherine
dodges the question
they start to drink and catherine gives
him a book about a boy who killed his
parents to see if he could get away with
it
she tells him that she wrote that book
years after her parents died before
finally leaving nick's place catherine
tells him that she'll be at johnny's
club in the evening
just in case he wants to follow her on
her way down the stairs catherine sees
and greets gus who is shocked to see her
at next place
that night nick goes to johnny's club
and finds catherine and roxy using coke
in the bathroom
on the dance floor roxy gets jealous as
catherine seductively dances with nick
and the two end up kissing
nick and catherine eventually make love
roughly in her bed with catherine tying
nick's hands to the bed using a white
silk scarf when catherine falls asleep
nick goes to the bathroom to wash up
suddenly roxy shows up and threatens to
kill him if he doesn't leave catherine
alone
provoking roxy nick asks her how long
she's been there and roxy simply tells
him that kathryn likes her to watch
with that she leaves the following night
nick and gus meet
and gus learns that nick has slept with
catherine though gus disapproves of
nick's decision he proceeds to tell nick
that internal affairs has found
nielsen's safety deposit box
it had 50 000 in it taken out three
months ago and wasn't used since
confused nick observes that it doesn't
make any sense since catherine didn't
know him three months ago
as nick and gus go their separate ways a
black car tries to run nick over
the car successfully hits him the first
time but nick manages to avoid it the
second and third time
he quickly gets in his car and follows
the black vehicle but the car crashes
revealing roxy to be the driver she dies
on the spot and the authorities soon
come to collect her body in the car
however walker doesn't believe nick's
account of what happened especially
after learning that the car is
catherine's
nick visits catherine to see how she's
doing and catherine is devastated over
roxy's
death she tells nick that everyone she
cares about dies then asks him to make
love to her
after that nick asks catherine if she
thinks roxy killed johnny but catherine
is sure that roxy wouldn't do anything
that might cause her harm
she starts telling him about a girl she
slept with in college and catherine
asserts that the girl
lisa oberman started following her
around and taking her pictures
lisa imitated the way catherine dressed
and even dyed her hair to be like hers
she says that it was awful but nick is
just surprised to hear her confess about
anything at all
back at the station nick learns that
roxy killed her two younger brothers
when she was only 16 and that she did it
on impulse
as nick and gus leave the station nick
tells his partner that he isn't sure
about catherine being johnny's killer
anymore
making us mad later on nick goes to
berkeley to look for lisa's records but
he doesn't find any when he goes to
catherine's place to ask her about it he
finds her with hazel dobkins and
catherine introduces them to each other
once hazel is out of earshot nick tells
catherine that lisa oberman isn't on
berkeley's list of students
there she's angry that nick is
investigating her she corrects him
saying that it's hoberman before leaving
when nick calls the school to confirm it
they report that lisa hoberman did
attend their school
enlisting andrews help nick learns that
lisa hoberman is actually beth garner
nick confronts beth at her apartment and
after admitting that she slept with
catherine once
beth insists that catherine had
developed a fixation with her and that
she started imitating the way she looked
and dressed
now nick has two versions of the same
story and he's mad that beth didn't say
anything
beth only insists that catherine is both
a liar and very ill fed up with her nick
leaves beth to go home
catherine's waiting for nick in his
apartment and he confronts her about her
story involving beth
she sticks to her account claiming that
she even filed a report against beth
nick starts looking for the report and
he discovers that nielsen used to have
it
he discusses this with gus and he
concludes that beth killed nielsen since
he found out about the report against
her in berkeley
this leads to an argument between the
two with nick believing catherine's
story while gus doesn't
nick then goes looking for beth's
husband dr joseph garner and he learns
that the man died six years ago
to learn more about him nick goes to the
local police according to the cop
joseph was walking home one day when
somebody just drove up and shot him with
a 0.38 revolver
the cop says that there were no suspects
not even beth it's also revealed that
nielsen asked the same cop the same
questions a year ago
and that there were rumors that beth's
girlfriend was the one who killed her
husband
at catherine's place nick sees an
excerpt of her story
there the detective's partner dies in an
elevator when catherine shows up she
tells nick that she finished her book
when nick asks about the ending
catherine answers that she already told
him that the girlfriend kills him in the
end
with that catherine bids nick goodbye
she finished her book his character's
dead
it's over between them of course this
leaves nick upset
gus then picks him up to visit
catherine's roommate in oakland from her
freshman year
according to gus the woman knows a lot
about catherine and beth then adds the
johnny psychiatrist used to share office
space with beth
upon reaching their destination gus goes
to suite 405 while nick stays in the car
gus is riding the elevator when nick
suddenly remembers catherine's book
he runs for the hotel to save his friend
but as soon as the elevator opens on the
fourth floor
gus is repeatedly stabbed with an ice
pick by someone wearing a black hooded
coat
by the time he arrived nick finds gus in
the exact same manner as described in
catherine's book and nick failed to save
him
when he hears a sound from afar nick
takes gus gun and sees beth in the
hallway
who claims that she received a message
to meet gus there nick points the gun at
her and warns her not to move
announcing that he knows about her
husband despite his warnings
beth starts walking toward him with her
hand in her pocket thinking it might be
a weapon nick shoots beth
only to find out that she was playing
with her keychain the authorities arrive
at the scene
and as walker starts questioning nick he
is called by andrews to the stairs where
they find a blonde wig
an ice pick and a coat that belongs to
the sfpd when they check beth's
apartment they find a 0.38 caliber
revolver there
along with other evidence that
implicates her in johnny nielsen and
gus's murders
they also find newspaper clippings and
photographs of catherine and her
ex-fiance
after a thorough investigation they all
learn that the gun found in beth's
apartment matches the bullet that was
used on nielsen and that catherine's
roommate had already died two years ago
the entire thing leaves nick confused
and he goes home where catherine is
waiting for him
she explains why she broke up with him
confessing she can't allow herself to
care for him and that she's scared of
losing him
the two make love once again and as they
do an ice pick is revealed to be under
the bed
subscribe to watch more videos like this
turn on notifications
and leave a like it really helps the
channel out thank you for watching